## Title
Genre-Aligned Book Recommendation System: A Comparative Analysis with Goodreads

## Abstract
This project aims to compare the genre relevance of recommendations generated by three different recommender systems (description-based, rating-based, and combined) with genres of recommendations from Goodreads. Our motivation lies in producing a recommendation system that aligns in terms of genre with Goodreads' system, a widely used platform for book recommendations. Using the extensive Goodreads book dataset from Kaggle, containing over 10 million entries, we will preprocess the data and develop three distinct models. By evaluating the effectiveness of each model in providing personalized book recommendations aligned with user genre preferences, we aim to identify which model performs best in this task. This comparison will shed light on which feature (description or ratings) contributes more significantly to the quality of recommendations, thereby providing insights for optimizing recommendation systems to improve genre alignment.

## Research questions
Is there a significant difference in genre relevance of recommendations generated by our three recommender systems (description-based, rating-based, and combined) compared to genres of recommendations from Goodreads?

## Dataset
https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/bahramjannesarr/goodreads-book-datasets-10m/data
- The dataset contains over ten million books scraped from the book review website Goodreads.
- Each book entry contains information such as: Id, Name, Nr of pages, Publisher, Language, Author, Rating, ISBN, Count of text reviews, Description
	- Example: 5107, The Catcher in the Rye, 1:133165, 277, 4:808278, total:2610840, 30, 1, Back Bay Books, 44046, 2001, eng, J.D. Salinger, 3.8, 2:224884, 5:891037, 0316769177, 3:553476, 55539, "The hero-narrator of The Catcher in the Rye is an ancient child of sixteen, a native New Yorker named Holden Caulfield. Through circumstances that tend to preclude adult, secondhand description, he leaves his prep school in Pennsylvania and goes underground in New York City for three days."
- There’s 30 files in the dataset. 7 of these contain user ratings, and the remaining 21 files all contain information on books. All files are .csv files.

## A tentative list of milestones for the project
*Stage 1: Preprocessing*

Preprocessing (loading the data, making any necessary adjustments etc.) - **Clarice**

*Stage 2: Building the RSs*

Model 1: Calculation of similarity scores for “book descriptions” feature - **Andrea & Anne Marijn**

Model 2: Calculation of similarity scores for “book rating” feature + implementing number of “written reviews” feature as weight to the vectors - **Tereza**

Model 3: Combination of scores for “book description” and “book rating” - **Clarice**

*Stage 3: Comparison* - **Clarice, Andrea, Anne Marijn, Tereza**

Our RS input: book title

Our RS output: 3 times top 3 recommended book titles (1 for each model)

To-Do:

From our RS, we collect:
- The output’s 3 title
- Manually ⇒ The output’s books’ 3
corresponding genres as provided by Goodreads
From Goodreads’ RS, we collect:
- Manually ⇒ The input title’s 3 corresponding genres as provided by Goodreads
- Manually ⇒ The 3 corresponding genres of the top 3 recommended books provided by Goodreads

## Documentation
x